[MUSIC PLAYING]
SURMA: Custom properties
are a new addition to CSS.
They are better known
under a different name--
CSS variables.
In the past, web developers
have used preprocessors
like Sass, LESS, or Stylus
to have this functionality.
The advantage of using the
standardized custom properties
is that you can change the
values during runtime using
media queries,
JavaScript, or dev tools,
and immediately see the
effect of your changes.
With this in place,
it makes sense
to make a lot of your values
dependent on custom properties.
In this example, the
size of the ribbon,
as well as the ribbon
flap, have been
defined using custom
properties, and are
used in many calc
expressions to position
and size other elements.
I can change these
properties in dev tools
to find the ideal
value for my layout.
It's especially useful to
define a padding variable that
is used as a base unit
whenever you're defining
a gutter, margin, or padding.
This way, you have
a single lever
to make a design feel
more or less spacious.
More patterns will
probably evolve
in the near future
around custom properties
as they become best practice.
But even now, they are
widely supported and allow
you to make rapid changes and
keep your design much more
flexible.
Good stuff, isn't it?
See you next time.
I mean, we all know that
Supercharged is clearly
the best, but we do
other series as well
which you should totally watch.
And for that reason,
you should subscribe
to this YouTube channel.
And if you want to see the most
recent Supercharged livestream,
you can click it over there.